readme.md, before:

# [![Manhattan](media/header.png)](https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan)

> 🗽Materialy designed stellar🚀 database app

[![Heroku](http://heroku-badge.herokuapp.com/?app=manhattanhq&style=flat&svg=1)](https://manhattanhq.herokuapp.com/) [![Trello Board](https://img.shields.io/badge/trello-board-blue.svg)](https://trello.com/b/ut3VcEu2) [![XO code style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-XO-5ed9c7.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/xo) [![Gitter](https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/nwjs/nw.js.svg)](https://gitter.im/manhattanhq/Lobby)  [![Repo Size](https://reposs.herokuapp.com/?path=manhattanhq/manhattan&color=orange)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manhattanhq/manhattan) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/klauscfhq/os-x-ntua/master/license)

<div align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan">
      <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/e59ca43b/media/screen.png" alt="App main screen">
    </a>
  <br>
</div>

## Contents

- [Project Description](#projec-description)
- [Designing](#designing)
  - [ER Model](#er-model)
  - [R Model](#r-model)
- [API](#api)
  - [Backend](#backend)
- [Download](#download)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [Links](#links)
  - [Tutorials](#tutorials)
- [Team](#team)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

## Designing

## ER Model

### Entities

For our Entities-Relations Model, we consider all the below described entities as **strong**.

#### PATIENT

> Patients receive drug prescriptions by doctors.

Each patient is uniquely identified by a **PatientID** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple**, as well as **composite**, **attributes**:

- **Age**
- **FullName**
  - FirstName
  - LastName
- **Address**
  - Town
  - StreetName
  - Number
  - PostalCode

#### DOCTOR

> Doctors prescribe drugs and monitor patients.

Each doctor is uniquely identified by a **DoctorID** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple**, as well as **composite**, **attributes**:

- **Specialty**
- **ExperienceYears**
- **FullName**
  - FirstName
  - LastName

#### PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY

> Pharmaceutical companies provide pharmacies with drugs.

Each pharmaceutical company is uniquely identified by a **PharmaceuticalCompanyId** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple** **attributes**:

- **Name**
- **PhoneNumber**

In addition, we consider that each pharmaceutical company has a unique name and a unique phone number, thus making the **Name** attribute a **Candidate Key** and the **PhoneNumber** a **Single-valued** (not **Multivalued**) attribute.

#### DRUG

> Drugs are produced by pharmaceutical companies.

Each drug is uniquely identified by a **DrugId** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple** **attributes**:

- **Name**
- **Formula**

Additionally, we consider as unique the commercial name of each drug, thus making the **Name** attribute a **Candidate Key**.

#### PHARMACY

> Prescriptions-R-X pharmacies.

Each pharmacy is uniquely identified by a **PharmacyID** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple**, as well as **composite**, **attributes**:

- **Name**
- **Address**
  - Town
  - StreetName
  - Number
  - PostalCode

Again, we considering as unique the name of each pharmacy, making the **Name** attribute a **Candidate Key**.

### Relations

#### SEEN BY

> Connects a patient with a corresponding doctor.

Each patient can be seen by **at most one** doctor, while each doctor can see **any number** patients.

Also, each patient has a doctor monitoring him, while a each doctor has **at least one** patient to monitor.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **1:N**
- Total Participation
  - **DOCTOR**
  - **PATIENT**

#### SELL

> Connects a pharmacy with its selling drugs.

Each pharmacy can have for sale **any number** of drugs, while a drug can be available at **any number** of pharmacies. Also, the relation holds a **Price** attribute, representing the selling price of a drug.

Additionally, we consider that each pharmacy can have drugs for sale, while a drug can be **unavailable** at all pharmacies.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **N:M**
- Total Participation
  - **Pharmacy**
- Partial Participation
  - **Drug**
- Relation Attributes
  - **Price**

#### MAKE

> Connects a drug with the pharmaceutical company producing it.

Each drug can be produced by **at most one** pharmaceutical company, while a pharmaceutical company can be producing **any number** of drugs.

Additionally, each drug can be produced by a pharmaceutical company, while a pharmaceutical company might **not be producing** some drugs out of the totally registered ones.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **1:N**
- Total Participation
  - **Drugs**
- Partial Participation
  - **Pharmaceutical Company**

#### PRESCRIPTION

> Connects a patient with a doctor and a prescribed drug.

This is a **ternary relationship**, where a patient can receive a prescription for **any number** of drugs by **any number** of doctors, a doctor can prescribe **any number** of drugs to **any number** of patients, and a drug can be prescribed to **any number** of patients by **any number** of doctors. Also, the relation holds a **Date** attribute, representing the prescription date, and a **Quantity** attribute, representing the quantity of the prescribed drug.

Additionally, for a patient might not exist a corresponding prescription, and a doctor might not have prescribed a prescription for a corresponding patient, while a drug might not have been prescribed by a doctor for a patient.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **N:M:K**
- Partial Participation
  - **PATIENT**
  - **DRUG**
  - **DOCTOR**
- Relation Attributes
  - **Date**
  - **Quality**

Finally, if a doctor prescribes the same drug to the same patient, more than one time, then the **last** prescription is the one registered in our database.

#### CONTRACT

> Connects a pharmaceutical company with a pharmacy.

A pharmacy can be in contract with **any number** of pharmaceutical companies, while a pharmaceutical company can be in contract with **any number** of pharmacies. Also, the relations holds a **StartDate** and an **EndDate** attribute, representing the contract initialization and termination dates accordingly, a **Text** attribute, representing the text upon which the contract was agreed and signed by both counterparts, and a **Supervisor** attribute, representing the contract supervisor.

We consider that each pharmacy is in contract with a pharmaceutical company, to supply itself with drugs, while each registered pharmaceutical company is in contract with one of the pharmacies.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **N:M**
- Total Participation
  - **PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY**
  - **PHARMACY**
- Relation Attributes
  - **StartDate**
  - **EndDate**
  - **Text**
  - **Supervisor**

Finally, if a pharmacy signs a contract with the same company, more than one time, then the last contract is the one registered in our database.

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

### ER Diagram

<div align="center">
  <a href="#">
    <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/5359efed/src/diagrams/ER.png" alt="ER Diagram" width="75%">
  </a>
</div>

## R Model

Each strong entity is immediately converted to a relation.

Keys are noted in a **bold** & _tilted_ fashion.

Also, we replaced the composite attribute **Address** with the simple attributes composing it.

### Strong Entities to Relations

- **Patient** (**_PatientId_**, FirstName, LastName, Town, StreetName, Number, PostalCode, Age)
- **Doctor** (**_DoctorId_**, FirstName, LastName, Specialty, ExperienceYears)
- **PharmaceuticalCompany** (**_PharmaceuticalCompanyId_**, Name, PhoneNumber)
- **Drug** (**_Drug_**, Name, Formula)
- **Pharmacy** (**_PharmacyId_**, Name, Town, StreetName, Number, PostalCode, PhoneNumber)

### Relation Sets

- **SeenBy** (**_PatientId_**, DoctorId)
- **Sell** (**_PharmacyId_**, **_DrugId_**, Price)
- **Make** (**_DrugId_**, PharmaceuticalCompanyId)
- **Prescription** (**_PatientId_**, **_DoctorId_**, **_DrugId_**, Date, Quantity)
- **Contract** (**_PharmacyId_**, **_PharmaceuticalCompanyId_**, StartDate, EndDate, Text, Supervisor)

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

### R Diagram

<div align="center">
  <a href="#">
    <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/5359efed/src/diagrams/R.png" alt="R Diagram" width="75%">
  </a>
</div>

## API

### Backend

#### SQL Structure

Structure designs pulled from the latest main Manhattan MySQL source.

#### Patient Table Design

#### Table structure for `patient`

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `patient`;
CREATE TABLE `patient` (
    `patient_id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `name` varchar(20) NOT NULL,
    `surname` varchar(20) NOT NULL,
    `town` varchar(20) NOT NULL,
    `street_name` varchar(20),
    `number` int(11),
    `postalcode` int(11),
    `age` int(2) NOT NULL,
    `doctor_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `created` datetime NOT NULL,
    `modified` timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    PRIMARY KEY (`patient_id`),
    KEY `doctor_id` (`doctor_id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8;
```

#### Prescription Table Design

#### Table structure for `prescription`

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `prescription`;
CREATE TABLE `prescription` (
    `patient_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `doctor_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `drug_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `date` date NOT NULL,
    `quantity` int(10),
    PRIMARY KEY (`patient_id`,`doctor_id`,`drug_id`),
    KEY `patient_id` (`patient_id`),
    KEY `doctor_id` (`doctor_id`),
    KEY `drug_id` (`drug_id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8;
```

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

## Download

### Fork project

```bash
# clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan.git
# navigate to the project directory
cd manhattan
```

## Links

### Tutorials

- [Basic MySQL Tutorial](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/basic-mysql-tutorial.aspx)
- [MySQL Functions](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-functions.aspx)
- [Triggers in MySQL](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/create-the-first-trigger-in-mysql.aspx)
- [Views in MySQL](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/create-sql-views-mysql.aspx)
- [Constraints in MySQL](http://www.w3resource.com/mysql/creating-table-advance/constraint.php)

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

## Credits

## Team

:sparkles: **<>** with :heart: by George, Konstantinos & Klaus :sparkles:

[![George Baxopoulos](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/)](https://github.com/georgebax) | [![Konstantinos Mitropoulos](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/)](https://github.com/tsikos7) | [![Klaus Sinani](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/)](https://github.com/klauscfhq)
--- | --- | ---
[George Baxopoulos](http://github.com/georgebax) | [Konstantinos Mitropoulos](https://github.com/tsikos7) | [Klaus Sinani](https://github.com/klauscfhq)

## License

MIT © [George Baxopoulos](https://github.com/georgebax), [Konstantinos Mitropoulos](https://github.com/tsikos7) & [Klaus Sinani](https://github.com/klauscfhq)

<div align="center">
  <br>
    <br>
      <a href="https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan">
        <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/16b69460/media/logo.png" alt="Manhattan" width="40%">
      </a>
    <br>
  <br>
</div>

Commit message:

:star:(update)More `Back to top!` links added!

readme.md, after:

# [![Manhattan](media/header.png)](https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan)

> 🗽Materialy designed stellar🚀 database app

[![Heroku](http://heroku-badge.herokuapp.com/?app=manhattanhq&style=flat&svg=1)](https://manhattanhq.herokuapp.com/) [![Trello Board](https://img.shields.io/badge/trello-board-blue.svg)](https://trello.com/b/ut3VcEu2) [![XO code style](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-XO-5ed9c7.svg)](https://github.com/sindresorhus/xo) [![Gitter](https://img.shields.io/gitter/room/nwjs/nw.js.svg)](https://gitter.im/manhattanhq/Lobby)  [![Repo Size](https://reposs.herokuapp.com/?path=manhattanhq/manhattan&color=orange)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/manhattanhq/manhattan) [![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/klauscfhq/os-x-ntua/master/license)

<div align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan">
      <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/e59ca43b/media/screen.png" alt="App main screen">
    </a>
  <br>
</div>

## Contents

- [Project Description](#projec-description)
- [Designing](#designing)
  - [ER Model](#er-model)
  - [R Model](#r-model)
- [API](#api)
  - [Backend](#backend)
- [Download](#download)
- [Credits](#credits)
- [Links](#links)
  - [Tutorials](#tutorials)
- [Team](#team)
- [License](#license)

## Project Description

## Designing

## ER Model

### Entities

For our Entities-Relations Model, we consider all the below described entities as **strong**.

#### PATIENT

> Patients receive drug prescriptions by doctors.

Each patient is uniquely identified by a **PatientID** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple**, as well as **composite**, **attributes**:

- **Age**
- **FullName**
  - FirstName
  - LastName
- **Address**
  - Town
  - StreetName
  - Number
  - PostalCode

#### DOCTOR

> Doctors prescribe drugs and monitor patients.

Each doctor is uniquely identified by a **DoctorID** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple**, as well as **composite**, **attributes**:

- **Specialty**
- **ExperienceYears**
- **FullName**
  - FirstName
  - LastName

#### PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY

> Pharmaceutical companies provide pharmacies with drugs.

Each pharmaceutical company is uniquely identified by a **PharmaceuticalCompanyId** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple** **attributes**:

- **Name**
- **PhoneNumber**

In addition, we consider that each pharmaceutical company has a unique name and a unique phone number, thus making the **Name** attribute a **Candidate Key** and the **PhoneNumber** a **Single-valued** (not **Multivalued**) attribute.

#### DRUG

> Drugs are produced by pharmaceutical companies.

Each drug is uniquely identified by a **DrugId** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple** **attributes**:

- **Name**
- **Formula**

Additionally, we consider as unique the commercial name of each drug, thus making the **Name** attribute a **Candidate Key**.

#### PHARMACY

> Prescriptions-R-X pharmacies.

Each pharmacy is uniquely identified by a **PharmacyID** -- **PRIMARY KEY**:key:, and is characterized by the following **simple**, as well as **composite**, **attributes**:

- **Name**
- **Address**
  - Town
  - StreetName
  - Number
  - PostalCode

Again, we considering as unique the name of each pharmacy, making the **Name** attribute a **Candidate Key**.

### Relations

#### SEEN BY

> Connects a patient with a corresponding doctor.

Each patient can be seen by **at most one** doctor, while each doctor can see **any number** patients.

Also, each patient has a doctor monitoring him, while a each doctor has **at least one** patient to monitor.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **1:N**
- Total Participation
  - **DOCTOR**
  - **PATIENT**

#### SELL

> Connects a pharmacy with its selling drugs.

Each pharmacy can have for sale **any number** of drugs, while a drug can be available at **any number** of pharmacies. Also, the relation holds a **Price** attribute, representing the selling price of a drug.

Additionally, we consider that each pharmacy can have drugs for sale, while a drug can be **unavailable** at all pharmacies.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **N:M**
- Total Participation
  - **Pharmacy**
- Partial Participation
  - **Drug**
- Relation Attributes
  - **Price**

#### MAKE

> Connects a drug with the pharmaceutical company producing it.

Each drug can be produced by **at most one** pharmaceutical company, while a pharmaceutical company can be producing **any number** of drugs.

Additionally, each drug can be produced by a pharmaceutical company, while a pharmaceutical company might **not be producing** some drugs out of the totally registered ones.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **1:N**
- Total Participation
  - **Drugs**
- Partial Participation
  - **Pharmaceutical Company**

#### PRESCRIPTION

> Connects a patient with a doctor and a prescribed drug.

This is a **ternary relationship**, where a patient can receive a prescription for **any number** of drugs by **any number** of doctors, a doctor can prescribe **any number** of drugs to **any number** of patients, and a drug can be prescribed to **any number** of patients by **any number** of doctors. Also, the relation holds a **Date** attribute, representing the prescription date, and a **Quantity** attribute, representing the quantity of the prescribed drug.

Additionally, for a patient might not exist a corresponding prescription, and a doctor might not have prescribed a prescription for a corresponding patient, while a drug might not have been prescribed by a doctor for a patient.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **N:M:K**
- Partial Participation
  - **PATIENT**
  - **DRUG**
  - **DOCTOR**
- Relation Attributes
  - **Date**
  - **Quality**

Finally, if a doctor prescribes the same drug to the same patient, more than one time, then the **last** prescription is the one registered in our database.

#### CONTRACT

> Connects a pharmaceutical company with a pharmacy.

A pharmacy can be in contract with **any number** of pharmaceutical companies, while a pharmaceutical company can be in contract with **any number** of pharmacies. Also, the relations holds a **StartDate** and an **EndDate** attribute, representing the contract initialization and termination dates accordingly, a **Text** attribute, representing the text upon which the contract was agreed and signed by both counterparts, and a **Supervisor** attribute, representing the contract supervisor.

We consider that each pharmacy is in contract with a pharmaceutical company, to supply itself with drugs, while each registered pharmaceutical company is in contract with one of the pharmacies.

- Mapping Cardinality
  - **N:M**
- Total Participation
  - **PHARMACEUTICAL COMPANY**
  - **PHARMACY**
- Relation Attributes
  - **StartDate**
  - **EndDate**
  - **Text**
  - **Supervisor**

Finally, if a pharmacy signs a contract with the same company, more than one time, then the last contract is the one registered in our database.

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

### ER Diagram

<div align="center">
  <a href="#">
    <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/5359efed/src/diagrams/ER.png" alt="ER Diagram" width="75%">
  </a>
</div>

## R Model

Each strong entity is immediately converted to a relation.

Keys are noted in a **bold** & _tilted_ fashion.

Also, we replaced the composite attribute **Address** with the simple attributes composing it.

### Strong Entities to Relations

- **Patient** (**_PatientId_**, FirstName, LastName, Town, StreetName, Number, PostalCode, Age)
- **Doctor** (**_DoctorId_**, FirstName, LastName, Specialty, ExperienceYears)
- **PharmaceuticalCompany** (**_PharmaceuticalCompanyId_**, Name, PhoneNumber)
- **Drug** (**_Drug_**, Name, Formula)
- **Pharmacy** (**_PharmacyId_**, Name, Town, StreetName, Number, PostalCode, PhoneNumber)

### Relation Sets

- **SeenBy** (**_PatientId_**, DoctorId)
- **Sell** (**_PharmacyId_**, **_DrugId_**, Price)
- **Make** (**_DrugId_**, PharmaceuticalCompanyId)
- **Prescription** (**_PatientId_**, **_DoctorId_**, **_DrugId_**, Date, Quantity)
- **Contract** (**_PharmacyId_**, **_PharmaceuticalCompanyId_**, StartDate, EndDate, Text, Supervisor)

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

### R Diagram

<div align="center">
  <a href="#">
    <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/5359efed/src/diagrams/R.png" alt="R Diagram" width="75%">
  </a>
</div>

## API

### Backend

#### SQL Structure

Structure designs pulled from the latest main Manhattan MySQL source.

#### Patient Table Design

#### Table structure for `patient`

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `patient`;
CREATE TABLE `patient` (
    `patient_id` int(11) NOT NULL AUTO_INCREMENT,
    `name` varchar(20) NOT NULL,
    `surname` varchar(20) NOT NULL,
    `town` varchar(20) NOT NULL,
    `street_name` varchar(20),
    `number` int(11),
    `postalcode` int(11),
    `age` int(2) NOT NULL,
    `doctor_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `created` datetime NOT NULL,
    `modified` timestamp NOT NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP,
    PRIMARY KEY (`patient_id`),
    KEY `doctor_id` (`doctor_id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8;
```

#### Prescription Table Design

#### Table structure for `prescription`

```sql
DROP TABLE IF EXISTS `prescription`;
CREATE TABLE `prescription` (
    `patient_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `doctor_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `drug_id` int(11) NOT NULL,
    `date` date NOT NULL,
    `quantity` int(10),
    PRIMARY KEY (`patient_id`,`doctor_id`,`drug_id`),
    KEY `patient_id` (`patient_id`),
    KEY `doctor_id` (`doctor_id`),
    KEY `drug_id` (`drug_id`)
) ENGINE=InnoDB DEFAULT CHARSET=utf8;
```

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

## Download

### Fork project

```bash
# clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan.git
# navigate to the project directory
cd manhattan
```

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

## Links

### Tutorials

- [Basic MySQL Tutorial](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/basic-mysql-tutorial.aspx)
- [MySQL Functions](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/mysql-functions.aspx)
- [Triggers in MySQL](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/create-the-first-trigger-in-mysql.aspx)
- [Views in MySQL](http://www.mysqltutorial.org/create-sql-views-mysql.aspx)
- [Constraints in MySQL](http://www.w3resource.com/mysql/creating-table-advance/constraint.php)

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

## Credits

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

## Team

:sparkles: **<>** with :heart: by George, Konstantinos & Klaus :sparkles:

[![George Baxopoulos](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/)](https://github.com/georgebax) | [![Konstantinos Mitropoulos](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/)](https://github.com/tsikos7) | [![Klaus Sinani](https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/)](https://github.com/klauscfhq)
--- | --- | ---
[George Baxopoulos](http://github.com/georgebax) | [Konstantinos Mitropoulos](https://github.com/tsikos7) | [Klaus Sinani](https://github.com/klauscfhq)

[:arrow_up:Back to top!](#contents)

## License

MIT © [George Baxopoulos](https://github.com/georgebax), [Konstantinos Mitropoulos](https://github.com/tsikos7) & [Klaus Sinani](https://github.com/klauscfhq)

<div align="center">
  <br>
    <br>
      <a href="https://github.com/manhattanhq/manhattan">
        <img src="https://cdn.rawgit.com/manhattanhq/manhattan/16b69460/media/logo.png" alt="Manhattan" width="40%">
      </a>
    <br>
  <br>
</div>
